# LISM
#### Video Demo:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqAwXYDe0ds
Description: My CS50 Final Project is a web application made using Flask, HTML, Javascript, CSS, SQL, and Python named "LISM". LISM is an abbreviation of "list them", which describes the purpose of this web application. This web application has 2 python files (`app.py` and `helpers.py`), 1 database file (`project.db`), 1 text file (`requirements.txt`), 7 HTML files (`create.html`, `error.html`, `index.html`, `layout.html`, `list.html`, `login.html`, and `register.html`), 1 CSS file (`styles.css`), and 3 static images ("edit_icon.png", "reset_icon.png", and "trash_icon.png")

In app.py, there are 11 routes. The "/register", "/login", and "/logout" are similar to the ones in the week 9 problem set, rendering and accepting submissions from `login.html` and `register.html` with the help of `helper.py`. The "/" only accepts GET requests and displays the list from the database into `index.html`. The "/create" has 2 methods, GET and POST, where in a GET request it returns a template of `create.html`, and in POST request it accepts a form submission from `create.html`, passes it into the database, and returns "/". The "/list" only accepts GET requests and brings a title variable to indicate the list to be shown in `list.html`. The "/check" and "/uncheck" both only accept POST requests and are accessed through the XMLHttpRequest made in `list.html` to record whether an item in a list is being checked or unchecked. The "/edit" are similar to "/create", but with an indicator to automatically fill `create.html` for the GET request, and the POST request updates the data instead of inserting a new one. The "/reset" and "/trash" both only have a GET request and are also accessed through XMLHttpRequest made in `index.html` to reset and remove a list, respectively.

This project uses `project.db` as the database and uses SQL to alter it. There are 3 tables including "users", "data", and "done". The "users" table stores data of user id, username, and hash passwords. The "data" table connects the user ids with their lists' title, subtext, and icon image. The "done" table stores the items of a list and its boolean value (check or unchecked) with the user id and the list title to locate them. For other files that have not been mentioned above, `layout.html` is the main template for the other HTMLs, `error.html` is for the error notification, and `styles.css` for the designs.

The web application starts with a register and login page. Once logged in to an account, the main page will be empty at first and there will be a "Create" button on the page navigation. Click on the "Create" button to start making lists. There will be a form asking for the list title (mandatory), a subtext (optional), an image (for the list icon by uploading from the device or through link) (optional), and the list of items or tasks to be filled and submitted.

The list that has been created will appear in the main page with the list icon (if image was added) and a progress tracker of the list. Hover over the list to reveal 3 buttons that are hidden behind, the edit button to edit the list content, the reset button to reset the list progress tracker, and the trash button to remove the list. Click on the list area to enter a page with a checklist for the list. You can check on the items or tasks in the list as a way to record the progress tracker.

The colors I use for this web application are mostly black and white as the goal of the design is to make texts and buttons look clear to the user. The web application is designed to be responsive for both laptop and phones. This web application can be used to list daily chores, targets, reminders, and etc. Although there have been a lot of similar applications on the internet, I find this project to be a good practice for me to implement the my programming skills.